Morty: Rick?
[Morty stops combing, looks around, then continues combing]
Pickle Rick: (offscreen, in the distance) Morty!
Morty: Rick?
Pickle Rick: (offscreen, in the distance) Hey, Mooorty!
Morty: Rick? Are you far away, or are you inside something?
[Morty opens a cabinet beneath the bathroom sink]
Is this a camera?
[Morty tries to look inside his comb for a camera]
Is everything a camera?
[Morty nervously glances around]
Pickle Rick: (offscreen, in the distance) Morty, the garage, Morty. Come to the garage!
[Transition to Morty entering the garage. There is a pickle and a screwdriver on Rick's work bench]
Pickle Rick: Morty?
Morty: Rick? W-where are you?
Pickle Rick: On my work bench, Morty.
Morty: Are you invisible and you're gonna, like, fart on me?
Pickle Rick: Flip the pickle over.
Morty: What, I'm gonna touch it, and you're gonna tell me it's an alien dick or something.
Pickle Rick: Come on, flip the pickle, Morty. You're not gonna regret it. The payoff is huge.
[Morty hesitantly picks up the screwdriver and turns the pickle over. The pickle has Rick's face on it] I turned myself into a pickle, Morty! Boom! Big reveal: I'm a pickle. What do you think about that? I turned myself into a pickle! W-what are you just staring at me for, bro. I turned myself into a pickle, Morty!
Morty: And?
Pickle Rick: "And"? What more do you want tacked on to this? I turned myself into a pickle, and 9/11 was an inside job?
Morty: Was it?
Pickle Rick: Who cares, Morty? Global acts of terrorism happen every day. Uh, here's something that's never happened before: I'm a pickle. I'm Pickle Rick!
Morty: Are you going to, I mean, you know, is this the first part of some magic trick?
Pickle Rick: I don't do magic, Morty, I do science. One takes brains, the other takes dark eye liner.
Morty: Well, can you move? Can you fly?
Pickle Rick: I wouldn't be much of a pickle if I could.
Morty: All right, well, do pickles live forever or --
Pickle Rick: Morty, stop digging for hidden layers and just be impressed. I'm a pickle.
Morty: I-I'm just trying to figure out why you would do this. Why anyone would do this.
Pickle Rick: The reason anyone would do this is, if they could, which they can't, would be because they could, which they can't.
[Beth and Summer enter the garage from the house. Beth is wearing a midi mahogany pencil dress while Summer is wearing a shorter pink dress with a hot pink jacket, along with black stockings and black heels]
Beth: Morty, we have to get going, or we're gonna be late. Where's your grandpa?
Pickle Rick: Right here, sweetie. I'm a pickle!
Beth: What?! Why would you -- Look, we're running late. We have to go.
Pickle Rick: Where are you guys going?
Beth: We have an appointment downtown that was set a week ago and agreed upon by everyone, including you.
Pickle Rick: Oh, my God. Beth, oh, it totally slipped my mind. Geez, oh, man. I'm a pickle. I mean, I don't know if I can, ooh, geez.
Morty: Rick, did you do this on purpose to get out of family counseling?
Beth: Morty!
Pickle Rick: It's okay, Beth. I understand Morty's suspicion. I've misled him before. Morty, turn me so we're making eye contact.
[Morty turns Pickle Rick's face so that it is facing him]
Morty, I assure you, I would never "find a way" to "get out of" family therapy. I hope my lack of fingers doesn't prevent the perception of my air quotes.
Summer: Can't you just turn yourself back into a human?
Pickle Rick: Great question, Summer. The unfortunate answer is I did this to challenge myself. And it could take hours or even days before I'm able to figure out how to return to human form. But, I mean, you know, your mom could put me in a purse or a pocket, you know, if she really needs me to go.
Beth: Nobody needs anything! Okay, it's fine. I mean, you should just stay here and figure out how to stop being a pickle, okay?
Morty: Hey, Rick, why is there a syringe of mysterious fluid hanging directly over you? Also, why is the string attached to it running through a pair of scissors attached to a timer? And why is the time set to 10 minutes from now, exactly when we would have left for therapy?
Pickle Rick: Well, Morty, if you know must know, the syringe is completely unrelated to this discussion, and, therefore, it does not warrant further explanation.
[Beth cuts off the syringe and takes it]
Beth: Enough. Kids, it's time to go. We don't want to be late.
[Beth puts the syringe in her purse]
Pickle Rick: W-w-what are you doing there, Beth? What are you doing there, sweetie?
Beth: Well, I mean, you don't want to get pierced by a needle full of liquid unrelated to your situation. How's that gonna help?
Pickle Rick: Can't argue with that.
Beth: Great. We'll see you later.
[Beth, Summer, and Morty enter the car.]
Pickle Rick: Hey, hey, be careful with that. It's for something else. It's really important, so don't break it.
[Beth drives away with Summer and Morty. They all exit.]
Pickle Rick: Okay, I may have fucked up here. Dup, ap, ap, pap, ut, dah, pap, pap, pap, pah. T-t-tah, tah. [clicks tongue]
Izzy walks in through the open garage door and jumps onto Rick's work bench. She sniffs around]
Pickle Rick: Oh, great. Stupid cat.
[Izzy sniffs Pickle Rick and hisses]
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! I know what it looks like to you, Izzy, but I'm not a snake! I've seen the YouTube videos, I know cats are scared of cucumbers and pickles because they think they're snakes. I'm not a snake! I'm a pickle, I'm a pickle!
[Izzy bats at Pickle Rick and knocks him off of the work bench, causing him to roll down the driveway]
Pickle Rick: Whoa! Oh! Whoa, whoa, whoa!
[Pickle Rick is directly facing the sky]
Pickle Rick: Oh, crap, that sun is bright.
[Pickle Rick begins to sweat]
Pickle Rick: Okay, come on. This can't really be the way I go out. This is the mega-genius equivalent of dying on the toilet.
[Pickle Rick starts to shrivel up]
Pickle Rick: So... hot. This is how I'm gonna die.
[Thunder can be heard and the shadow of a cloud appears overhead. It starts to rain. Pickle Rick stops shriveling]
Pickle Rick: Oh, God, moisture.
[The rain gets heavy and it begins to flood]
Pickle Rick: Oh, God, the moisture! Dial it back, God! Dial it back a little bit here!
[Pickle Rick starts rolling down the road]
Pickle Rick: Oh! Oh!
[Pickle Rick rolls towards a sewer grate]
Pickle Rick: Oh, God! Perpendicular, perpendicular!
[Pickle Rick rolls into the sewer grate and falls into the sewer]
Pickle Rick: Oh, shiiit! Oh! Oh! Oh!
[Pickle Rick hits many pipes before eventually falling onto a solid surface. There are bugs crawling around. One bug walks up to a pile of dirt. Pickle Rick bites his lip and pickle juice comes out. The bug turns around]
Pickle Rick: Come on. That's it.
[The bug walks towards Pickle Rick]
Pickle Rick: Come get this delicious brine.
[The bug is in front of Pickle Rick. Pickle Rick bites on its head and squeezes it until the bug dies.]
Pickle Rick: Aah! Come on! Come on, motherfucker! Come on!
[Pickle Rick licks off the top of the bug's head, revealing its brain. He then licks part of the brain and the bug's leg moves. He rolls onto the bug and licks its brain, moving its legs forward and moving him forward with it]
Pickle Rick: Yes!
[Transition to Beth, Summer, and Morty sitting in a waiting room outside of Dr. Wong's therapy office. Beth is reading a magazine, while Summer sits with her head resting on her fist. The door to her office reads: "Dr. WONG / FAMILY THERAPY / COPROPHRAGIA RECOVERY". There is a motivational picture of a man eating a hot dog which reads "COURAGE" underneath it.]
Summer: How is this even family therapy if Dad's not invited and Grandpa won't come?
Morty: Yeah, and what's courageous about eating a hot dog?
Beth: It's nobody's choice to be here, you knobs. The family was told to get counseling by your principal, even though it's not the family that was huffing pottery glaze in the art room and desk wetting in history class.
Mr. Goldenfold enters through Dr. Wong's door.
Mr. Goldenfold: Oh, the Smith family, minus a dad. You're patients of Dr. Wong, too?
Beth: Temporarily. By order of the school.
Mr. Goldenfold: Me too. How long have you all been eating poop?
Summer: We... have never... eaten poop.
Mr. Goldenfold: Uh, me, neither. Say, where did my family get off to?
[Mr. Goldenfold exits. Dr. Wong opens her door and enters the waiting room]
Dr. Wong: Smith family, I'm Dr. Wong. Come on in.
[Beth, Summer, and Morty exit the waiting room and enter Dr. Wong's office. Dr. Wong flips the motivational image over to another motivational image of a nuclear family which reads "DEDICATION". Transition to Beth, Morty, Summer, and Dr. Wong sitting down in Dr. Wong's office.]
Dr. Wong: I was told there was a grandpa that might be joining us?
Beth: He got wrapped up in an experiment. He's a scientist. Like, legit, like on an inter-galactic, sci-fi level. His work is very --
Morty: He turned himself into a pickle.
Beth: Morty, Mom's talking. I'm sorry, I suppose that's a good segue into our little discipline cases here.
Dr. Wong: Does Grandpa turn himself into a pickle a lot?
Beth: What? No, what kind of question is that?
Dr. Wong: The kind that wasn't designed to attack or hurt you in any way.
Beth: Oh, Jesus Christ, one of these. No, my father has never turned himself into a pickle before. He's unpredictable and eccentric. The whole family is. Speaking of which...
[Beth turns towards Summer and Morty]
Dr. Wong: Okay, let's open things up to the whole family, and let me ask this. Why do we think Grandpa turned himself into a pickle?
[Beth rolls her eyes. Transition to Pickle Rick, who has attached the bug's limbs to his pickle body and has managed to use them to move. He is looking through a grate, and is rubbing the end of one of the bug arms against one of the bars]
Pickle Rick: Wow. Ugh.
[A rat appears behind the grate and starts scratching at Pickle Rick, screeching]
Pickle Rick: Hey, listen, I know this is your world not mine. The sooner I can get out, the sooner I can go back to taking big craps, and you can go back to subsisting on them.
[The rat breaks open one of the bars and continues to scratch. Pickle Rick starts to walk backwards.]
Pickle Rick: You are one driven rat. Could you be a little more driven? To the right.
[Pickle Rick scratches at a rope which is attached to a bug's arms which is holding a razor that it lets go of which is propelled upwards which breaks a rubber band which is tied to a sharp broken bottle which falls on the rat's head and chops it off, killing the rat]
[Pickle Rick picks up the rat's head]
Pickle Rick: Yes, yes, yes! Come on, come on, come on! Fresh, fresh, fresh!
[A mischief of rats appears behind the bars, also scratching at Pickle Rick, who is not in their range.]
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa, was this your friend? Don't worry, he died doing what he loved, being a dumb fucking rat.
[Pickle Rick puts the rat's head onto a bottle cap which starts a machine which lifts him up and takes off his bug limbs. The machine then splits open the rat head and rips out its brain, then puts Pickle Rick down and begins nailing the rat's body parts to Pickle Rick's pickle body. It then sticks a needle into the brain which connects it to the limbs. Pickle Rick runs towards the rats and begins killing them.]
Pickle Rick: Oh, yeah! Aaaah!
[He takes out a machines on his wrists which are loaded with screws. He kills some of the rats. The screws disappear and x-acto blade pop out. He kills more rats. Transition to Dr. Wong's office.]
Beth: I didn't say my father is perfect, I said his work is important.
Summer: And she's saying what's important is that Grandpa lied to you to get out of coming here.
Beth: Oh, he did not!
Dr. Wong: Let's do an experiment here. I get the impression this family values science. So raise your hand if you feel certain you know what was in the syringe.
[No one raises their hand.]
Raise your hand if you know for certain the syringe does not contain anti-pickle serum.
[Beth begins to raise her hand but stops herself.]
Beth, your hand did a little thing there.
Beth: Do you really not see what's happening here?
Dr. Wong: Tell me.
Beth: Well, Dr. Wong -- by the way, racist name -- obviously, Morty and Summer are seizing on your arbitrary pickle obsession as an end run around what was supposed to be their therapy.
Dr. Wong: Oh, I think this pickle incident is a better path than any other to the heart of your family's dysfunction. I think it's possible that you and your father have a very specific dynamic. I don't think it's one that rewards emotion or vulnerability. I think it may punish them. I think it's possible that dynamic eroded your marriage, and is infecting your kids with a tendency to misdirect their feelings.
[A short pause]
Beth: Fuck you.
Morty and Summer, in unison: Mom!
Beth: Fuck both of you, too.
[Transition to Pickle Rick, fighting a much larger grey rat and beating it up.]
Pickle Rick: By the way, you might notice that in spite of your numerous distinctive features, I never gave you a name like Scar or Stripe or Goliath. That's because, to me, you aren't special.
[Pickle Rick pins the rat to the wall with some screws.]
You were special to rats. Now they're dead. I guess it was me you should have impressed.
[Pickle Rick slices open the rat's stomach with his x-acto blade.]
God damn it, I love myself.
[Pickle Rick walks up to a pipe above him. His wrist machines fall off and are replaced with a jet pack. He pulls a hood over his head with a rat's face on it. He turns on the jet pack and flies out of the pipe and out of a toilet.]
Pickle Rick: Pickle Riiick!
[Pickle Rick opens the door. It is a bathroom door with a "male" sign on the front. He starts running around and opening various doors and looking in. Eventually he runs up to an elevator and tries to jump up to the buttons but cannot reach them. He tries to scale the wall but fails. He pushes a garbage can and a potted plant next to each other in front of the elevator buttons. He jumps off of the garbage can into the potted plant, then jumps into the lid which turns rapidly and propels him up and swings him to the elevator buttons.]
Get that parkour. Get that parkour!
[Pickle Rick kicks the "down button", then waits on the ground for the elevator. The elevator opens, and three men in black suits with earpieces stand inside. They notice Pickle Rick and gasp.]
Pickle Rick: Hey, it's cool. Just need to find the nearest exit.
[The men in the elevator point their guns at Pickle Rick.]
Pickle Rick: Whoa, whoa, whoa! No need to freak out.
[One of the men yells something in a foreign language into his earpiece and all three men start shooting at him. He runs away and they chase after him, still shooting at him.]
Pickle Rick: Whoa! Who in the fuck's toilet is this?
[Transition to the frontal exterior of the building. It is a rather large light brown building with a stone fence and a plethora of guards surrounding it. An alarm blares. Some guards run around to the other side of the building's roof. Transition to a surveillance room where the three agents from the elevator are waiting. The Agency Director slams open the door.]
Agency Director: What is it?
Agent #1: A pickle. A rat. Both.
Agent #2: It says it's a scientist.
Agency Director: Where is it?
Agent #1: It seems to be using the air ducts and the mail tubes to get around.
[A monitor shows Pickle Rick climbing into an air duct]
Agent #1: It's been gathering office supplies, we think, to build weaponry. But look what it did on the mezzanine.
[The monitor shows Pickle Rick jumping from a potted plant to the trash can to the recycling bin]
It transferred a bottle from the trash to the recycling bin.
[On the monitor, Pickle Rick picks up a glass bottle from the trash can, taunts the camera with it, throws it in the recycling bin, then runs off.]
Whatever this thing is, it's shaming us.
Agency Director: We have 34 armed guards, and we can't kill a pickle?
Agent #1: 32 armed guards. He killed two.
Agent #2: It's on the phone.
[A phone rings and one of the monitors reads "INCOMING CALL".]
Agency Director: Put him on, and locate the phone he's using.
[Agent #2 picks up the phone]
Hello.
Pickle Rick: Hi, um, can you, uh (burps) please let me out.
Agency Director: Your mere presence in this building violates international law.
[Agent #1 walks up to the Agency Director with a clipboard, which reads "LEVEL 3 / ROOM 304" in red pen. He taps the clipboard. The Agency Director looks at it and nods.]
I couldn't let you out even if you hadn't killed two men.
[Transition to Pickle Rick. The bottom part of the phone he is using has been dismantled. He attaches a belt around his waist which has batteries in the back of it.
Pickle Rick: You should know those men killed themselves.
Agency Director: And how is that?
Pickle Rick: They didn't (burps) let me out.
Agent #2: Solen'ya.
Agency Director: Shut your mouth and do your jobs, you fucking children!
Pickle Rick: Uh, is this not a good time or...?
[Agent #1 holds his earpiece up to his ear. He gives a thumbs up to the Agency Director. On one of the monitors, six agents run up to the door of room 304 with rifles.]
Agency Director: Some of my men are calling you "Solen'ya": The Pickle Man, an old wives tale. He crawls from bowls of cold soup to steal the dreams of wasteful children.
[One of the agents on the monitor gives a thumbs up. The Agency Director pantomimes slicing his neck to Agent #1.]
Pickle Rick: That'd be a lucky break for you.
Agent #1: Go, shoot to kill!
[Transition to room 304. One of the agents slams open the door, knocking over a water jug above the door which activates a pulley which pulls a string which cuts another string which swings a needle towards the agent's head, killing him instantly. Two more agents enter and start to walk in, but fall through the floor onto some spikes, which kill them. The three remaining agents walk in and see this and begin shooting at a pickle which is not Pickle Rick, but a decoy. They continue to shoot at the pickle until it is completely gone.]
Agent #3: Aaah! We got him.
[Transition back to the surveillance room.]
Agency Director: Ah.
Agent #1: Ah.
[Transition back to room 304. Agent #3 turns a computer around with the tip of his gun, whose screen reads "Receiving Call / (internet line)".]
Pickle Rick: ...because this pickle doesn't care about your children. And I'm not gonna take their dreams. I'm gonna take their parents.
[Pickle Rick steps on a laptop mouse whose screen reads "Sending Call". The window which reads that is minimized and another window is pulled up which reads "Sending Explosion / ...". Transition to room 304. The computer screen now reads "Receiving Explosion / (internet line)". The laptop blows up and the three agents are sent flying. Pickle Rick jumps out of an air duct into the hallway where the three agents are, holding a device he constructed. He holds up the device and a laser comes out, which burns a hole through all three of the men's heads, killing them instantly. Three more agents come from around the corner. Pickle Rick reloads the device and shoots another laser, this time chopping off the three other agents' ankles with it. He runs away. Transition to the surveillance room. Pickle Rick shows up on each of the monitors, and turns them off as he appears on them.]
Agent #2: Solen'ya! He's coming! It's because I threw half-way my sandwich!
Agency Director: He's just a pickle!
Agent #2: He's a monster!
Agency Director: He's not the only one.
[The agency director straightens his tie. Transition to another door. The agency director uses a key card to open the door, which leads to another metal door with two guards standing next to it. He turns the wheel on the door, opening it. Jaguar sits inside.]
You can stay, dead to the world and die in this room. Or you can kill a pickle for me and earn your freedom.
Jaguar: There is no freedom while your leader breathes. Our country is a prison.
Agency Director: Then Katarina is a prisoner. Perhaps I could arrange her escape, as well. She lives, Jaguar.
Jaguar: Where is this pickle?
[Transition to Dr. Wong's office.]
Dr. Wong: What do you think is in the syringe, Beth?
Beth: You're the one that costs $200 an hour. You tell me.
Morty and Summer: Anti-pickle serum.
Dr. Wong: Your kids think it might be anti-pickle serum.
Beth: My kids pee their desks and suck on unbaked vases.
[Morty picks up a book which sits on Dr. Wong's coffee table, which he opens and reads]
They're just angry at me for divorcing their father.
Summer: I never said I was angry at you.
Beth: That's the point of pottery-enamel huffing, Summer. You do it so you don't have to say "I'm angry at mommy" out loud.
Morty: Oh, my God!
[Morty closes the book and puts it back on the coffee table, pointing at it]
Oh, there-there's pictures of people eating poop in there!
[Dr. Wong picks the book up and puts it on her lap]
Dr. Wong: It's not my job to take sides or pass judgment. Do you think when your father asks for that syringe, you could ask him --
Beth: He won't have to ask for it, okay? He won't need it. He'll just make more. He doesn't need anything from anyone.
Dr. Wong: You admire him for that.
Beth: It's better than making your problems other people's problems.
[Transition to Pickle Rick and Jaguar fighting in an office. Pickle Rick tries to shoot Jaguar with his laser while Jaguar tries to shoot at Pickle Rick with two guns. A bullet hits Pickle Rick and takes a small chunk out of him.]
Pickle Rick: Oh, come on!
[Pickle Rick hits Jaguar's shoulder with the laser, Pickle Rick hides behind a shelf while Jaguar hides behind a desk]
Jaguar: Pickle Man, you should know this isn't personal!
[Jaguar bites a bullet, and pours the gunpowder into a coffee filter]
Pickle Rick: You should know that isn't original.
[Pickle Rick kicks open a Styrofoam container with a burger inside and pulls it towards him]
They have my daughter.
[Jaguar takes a water bottle and pours the water into his open wound]
There's nothing I won't do to see her again.
Pickle Rick: Yeah, there's lots I wouldn't do to see my daughter, but killing you gets me to her quicker than your derivative bullshit.
[Pickle Rick takes a tomato slice out of the burger and squeezes it onto his missing chunk. He pulls out a packet of mustard and bites it open. Jaguar pours the gunpowder into his wound and winces. Pickle Rick rubs mustard on his missing chunk and shouts, squeezing open the mustard packet. Jaguar lights a match and puts it up to the wound, setting it on fire. Pickle Rick grabs a stapler and staples a pickle slice to his missing chunk. Both shout in unison]
Jaguar: I never bullshit, Pickle Man. This can only end with one of us dead, and I have never died.
Pickle Rick: That will be your downfall, Jaguar, not being open to new experiences.
[Transition to surveillance room. The two continue fighting. Pickle Rick's laser gradually takes out all of the cameras]
Agency Direcotr: Is it done? Jaguar?!
Pickle Rick: Jaguar couldn't make it.
Agency Director: Do it.
Okay, you win, Pickle Man.
I'm unsealing the building.
Pickle Rick: No, thanks.
I'm coming for you now.
Agency Director: Pickle Man, there's $100 million worth of bonds in a safe on level two.
I'll give you the combination.
Agent #2: That money belongs to the people.
Agency Director: Shut up and call me a helicopter, you prick! Do we have a deal?!
Pickle Rick: Take that money, give it to Jaguar's daughter when you set her free.
Or I'll be visiting you.
Agency Director: Jaguar's daughter is dead.
Pickle Rick: Huh, so you're a liar.
Agency Director: Jaguar was an animal.
You're an intelligent pickle.
We can do business.
Pickle Rick: I don't think so.
See you soon.
Agency Director: Is the helicopter here?
Agent #2: Yes. And the police are on the way. What do we tell them?
[The Director kills both agents with headshots.]
Agency Director: Tell them we were robbed.
[The Director fills a duffel bag with documents and passports and run to the helicopter on the roof, which takes off without him]
Hey! Hey, what are you doing?! I'm right here!
[The shot pans to show the helicopter is being flown by Jaguar, with Pickle Rick in the passenger bay. Pickle Rick takes a drag on a cigarette and throws it into a pile of oil on the roof, igniting it into a half-ring behind the Director. The flames also ignite a fuse leading to a cache of explosives inside the building]
Agency Director: Farewell, Solen'ya.
Jaguar: F-15s are scrambled. This helicopter will be shot down in seven minutes.
Pickle Rick: Well, my daughter is about five away, and I've got about eight to live.
Jaguar: Pickle Man, it's too late for me to tell my daughter I love her, but not for you.
Pickle Rick: Oh, well, uh, she knows. I mean, we don't really buy into that kind of crap, to the extent that love is an expression of familiarity over time, my access to infinite timelines precludes the necessity of attachment. In fact, I even abandoned one of my infinite daughters in an alternate version of earth that was taken over by mutants.
Jaguar: Okay. Good luck with that. Wait. Do I have infinite daughters?
Pickle Rick: Huh? Uh, no. No, nope, sorry about that. Nope, just me. Yeesh!
[Transition to Dr. Wong's office.]
Beth: I am afraid that my kids will get expelled.
Dr. Wong: Good.
Summer, you go.
Summer: I am mad that I can't huff enamel without people assuming it's because my family sucks. I hope to be seen one day as someone that just likes getting high.
Dr. Wong: Good job.
Morty, do you have an "I" statement?
Morty: I am sad that I peed. I'm sad that I peed in class instead of a toilet.
Dr. Wong: Look at this family go. You guys are pros. What do you guys think about doing this once a week?
[The door bursts open from Pickle Rick's kick.]
Pickle Rick: Ugh.
[Pickle Rick walks in and flops on the couch next to Summer.]
Dr. Wong: You must be Rick.
Pickle Rick: Mm-hmm.
Dr. Wong: I've heard a lot about you today. Your family is crazy about you. Your daughter holds you in very high regard. You're a lucky fella.
Pickle Rick: Yeah, thank you.
Uh, sweetie, you don't still happen to have that syringe in your purse?
[Beth looks to Dr. Wong, who nods at her to proceed. Beth looks back at Pickle Rick.]
Beth: Dad, I would like you to tell me what's in the syringe.
Pickle Rick: It's a serum that I need to, uh, to stay alive.
I have had a rough day.
And, uh, I've sustained a lot of damage.
I'm pretty close to death, which the serum will prevent.
Dr. Wong: By changing you from a pickle to a human.
Pickle Rick: Yes.
Dr. Wong: Rick, why did you lie to your daughter?
Pickle Rick: So I wouldn't have to come here.
Dr. Wong: Why didn't you want to come here?
Pickle Rick: Because I don't respect therapy, because I'm a scientist. Because I invent, transform, create, and destroy for a living, and when I don't like something about the world, I change it. And I don't think going to a rented office in a strip mall to listen to some agent of averageness explain which words mean which feelings has ever helped anyone do anything.
I think it's helped a lot of people get comfortable and stop panicking, which is a state of mind we value in the animals we eat, but not something I want for myself. I'm not a cow. I'm a pickle. When I feel like it. So...you asked.
Dr. Wong: Rick, the only connection between your unquestionable intelligence and the sickness destroying your family is that everyone in your family, you included, use intelligence to justify sickness.
You seem to alternate between viewing your own mind as an unstoppable force and as an inescapable curse. And I think it's because the only truly unapproachable concept for you is that it's your mind within your control. You chose to come here, you chose to talk -to belittle my vocation- just as you chose to become a pickle.
You are the master of your universe, and yet you are dripping with rat blood and feces. Your enormous mind literally vegetating by your own hand.
I have no doubt that you would be bored senseless by therapy, the same way I'm bored when I brush my teeth and wipe my ass. Because the thing about repairing, maintaining, and cleaning is it's not an adventure. There's no way to do it so wrong you might die. It's just work. And the bottom line is, some people are okay going to work, and some people well, some people would rather die.
Each of us gets to choose.
[After a few silent beats, Dr. Wong's watch beeps.]
That's our time. I'm going to give you guys my card and hope to hear from you again.
And if you have any friends or family that eat poop and would like to stop, give them my number.
[Transition to Beth's car. Beth is driving; Pickle Rick is buckled into the front passenger seat; Summer and Morty are in the back bench seat.]
Pickle Rick: I, um I'm sorry I lied to get out of the thing.
I, I shouldn't lie to you.
Beth: Oh, it's fine.
I mean, thank you, and, yeah, you shouldn't.
But I hope you know that's not what that session was supposed to be.
Pickle Rick: Oh, no, I mean, I know it was Morty peeing his pants and Summer snorting glue or whatever...
Beth: [Laughs] She huffed enamel, and we never even talked about it.
Pickle Rick: Well, there was so much more at stake. I mean, that shrink, what a monologuist.
Summer: Are we gonna go back?
Pickle Rick: Sweetie, could I ge-get that syringe now?
Beth: Oh, my God, yes! Dad, it's in my purse. Oh, I'm sorry. You must be in agony.
Pickle Rick: Eh.
[Rick injects himself and transforms back into a human, coughing up what looks to be pickle brine.]
Rick: Jesus. Jesus Christ. Therapists, man.
Beth: Weird breed.
Rick: Man, I missed having hands and blood and a stomach.
[To Beth:] We should get a drink.
Beth: Really? Like, go somewhere?
Rick: Yeah, let's drop the kids off and go tie one on.
Beth: Absolutely!
Morty: I, I liked her.
Beth: So what are you thinking, like, Smokey's Tavern? Maybe Shoney's?
Rick: Yeah, either one. Either one.
[Post credits. Transition to Concerto's death trap piano. Rick and Morty are tied up beneath giant piano keys, with other corpses--their heads smashed in--lay to either side of them, while Concerto is perched above them on a smaller piano that controls the death trap.]
Rick: You'll never get away with this, Concerto.
Concerto: That is where you're mistaken, Mr. Sanchez.
This shall be my greatest performance of all time!
[Concerto starts playing his piano, forcing some of the giant keys to strike the already smashed heads of the corpses.]
Rick: This is it, Morty. We're goners. We're not getting out of this one. After everything we've been through, this is how we're gonna die.
Make peace with your god.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick, I-I-I don't want to die!
Concerto: And now for the E-splat!
[Jaguar glides in and slits Concerto's throat.]
Rick: Jaguar!
[Jaguar looks back to Rick, nods slightly, then extends his flight suit's wings and flies off.]
Morty: Who? Who was that, Rick?
Rick: That, Morty, is why you don't go to therapy.
Rick: (stumbles in drunkenly, and turns on the lights) Morty! You gotta come on. You got--... you gotta come with me.
Morty: (rubs his eyes) What, Rick? What’s going on?
Rick: I got a surprise for you, Morty.
Morty: It's the middle of the night. What are you talking about?
Rick: (spills alcohol on Morty's bed) Come on, I got a surprise for you. (drags Morty by the ankle) Come on, hurry up. (pulls Morty out of his bed and into the hall)
Morty: Ow! Ow! You're tugging me too hard!
Rick: We gotta go, gotta get outta here, come on. Got a surprise for you Morty.
[The scene cuts to Rick's ship]
Rick: (Rick drives through the night sky) What do you think of this... flying vehicle, Morty? I built it outta stuff I found in the garage.
Morty: Yeah, Rick... I-it's great. Is this the surprise?
Rick: Morty. I had to... I had to do it. I had— I had to— I had to make a bomb, Morty. I had to create a bomb.
Morty: What?! A bomb?!
Rick: We're gonna drop it down there just get a whole fresh start, Morty. Create a whole fresh start.
Morty: T-t-that's absolutely crazy!
Rick: Come on, Morty. Just take it easy, Morty. It's gonna be good. Right now, we're gonna go pick up your little friend Jessica.
Morty: Jessica? From my math class?
Rick: (puts an arm around Morty’s shoulders) When I drop the bomb you know, I want you to have somebody, you know? I want you to have the thing. I'm gonna make it like a new Adam and Eve, and you're gonna be Adam.
Morty: Ohh...
Rick: And Jessica's gonna be Eve.
Morty: Whhhh-wha?
Rick: And so that's the surprise, Morty.
Morty: No, you can't! (shoves Rick away) Jessica doesn't even know I exist! But—but, but forget about that, because you can't blow up humanity!
Rick: I-I get what you're trying to say, Morty. Listen, I'm not... (spills alcohol down his shirt) You don't got... Y-you don’t gotta worry about me trying to fool around with Jessica or mess around with Jessica or anything. I'm not that kind of guy, Morty.
Morty: What are you talking about, Rick?
Rick: You-you don't have to worry about me getting with Jessica or anything. Sh-sh-she— she, she, she's all for you, Morty.
Morty: I don't care about Jessica! Y-Yyyyyyyyyyou—
Rick: You know what, Morty? You're right. (throws empty bottle into the backseat) Let's forget the girl altogether. She, she's probably nothing but trouble, anyways. (presses a button)
Robot Voice: Arming neutrino bomb.
Morty: (unbuckles his seatbelt) That's it... that's it, Rick. I'm taking the wheel. (jumps up on Rick and starts fighting with him over control of the wheel)
Rick: Get off of me, Morty! (they begin to talk over each other)
Morty: I'm taking charge of this situation, buddy! (starts kicking Rick's face while grabbing the wheel) I'm put—I’m, I'm, I'm, I'm puttin’... I-I’m, I’m, I’m not gonna stand around like some sort of dumb... dumb person and just le-let you ruin the whole world!
Rick: (at the same time) Come on! What’s gotten into you? If you love Earth so much why don’t you marry it? (pushes Morty) What are you, crazy? Alright, alright, Morty. (pushes Morty off of him)
Rick: Alright. I'll-I'll land. I'll land. I'll land. I'll land the thing. I’ll land the thing. Big tough guy all of a sudden.
[Cut to desert]
Rick: (Rick lands the cruiser in an open desert; he opens the door and tumbles out among dozens of empty alcohol cans and bottles) We'll park it right here, Morty. Right here on the side of the ree... road here.
Morty: Oh, thank god.
Rick: You know what? That was all a test, Morty. Just an elaborate test to make you more assertive.
Morty: It was?
Rick: Sure. Why not? I don’t, I don't know. Y-you know what, Mo— (falls asleep and begins snoring)
Robot Voice: Neutrino bomb armed.
Morty: Um...
[Cut to opening theme]
[Open to Smith residence, dining room]
Jerry: I see there's a new episode of that singing show tonight. Who do you guys think is gonna be the best singer? (Morty falls asleep at the table, smashing his face into his plate)
Summer: Oh my God, his head is in his food. I'm going to puke.
Beth: Morty, are you getting sick? (Morty lifts his head, clearly exhausted,
and wipes food from his face) I told you not to practice-kiss the living room
pillow. The dog sleeps on it.
Morty: I wasn't kissing a pillow, mom. I just I didn't get a lot of sleep last night. Maybe my dreams were just too loud or something.
Summer: Or maybe you were out all night again with Grandpa Rick.
Jerry: What?
Beth: Dad?
Rick: What, so everyone's supposed to sleep every single night now? You realize that nighttime makes up half of all time?
Jerry: Damn it!
Beth: Jerry!
Jerry: Beth!
Summer: Oh my god, my parents are so loud, I want to die.
Rick: Mm, there is no God, Summer. You gotta rip that band-aid off now. You'll thank me later.
Jerry: (glaring at Rick) Okay, with all due respect, Rick— what am I talking about? What respect is due? How is my son supposed to pass his classes if you keep dragging him off for high-concept Sci-Fi rigamarole?
Rick: Listen, Jerry. I-I-I don't want to overstep my bounds or anything. It's your house. It's your world. You're a real Julius Caesar but I'll tell you something—tell you how I feel about school, Jerry. It's a waste of time. (Jerry stares incredulously at him) Buncha people running around, bumping into each other. G-guy up front says, "two plus two." The people in the back say, "four." Then the—then the bell rings, and they give you a carton of milk and a piece of paper that says you can go take a dump or something. I mean, it's not a place for smart people, Jerry. And I know that's not a popular opinion, but it's my two cents on the issue. (wipes his mouth and gets up, stopping behind Beth and putting a hand on her shoulder) This was a good breakfast, Beth. You really made the crap out of those eggs. I wish your mother was here to eat them. (Rick gives Beth a kiss and walks away)
Beth: (tears up in happiness) Oh, dad…
Jerry: What? For real? (Morty's face slams into his plate again)
[Cut to Ext. Harry Herpson High School]
Mr. Goldenfold: Alright, now, everybody get settled. Get away from the windows!
[Cut to Int. Mr. Goldenfold’s class]
Mr. Goldenfold: Now, look, we're gonna be dealing with some real serious stuff today. You might have heard of it. It's called math? And without it, none of us would even exist, so let's jump right in. Two plus two.
All classmates except Morty: Four. (Morty, sitting in the back row, stares at Jessica, who sits in the front row, answering Jessica’s name for the questions)
Morty: Jessica.
Mr. Goldenfold: Five plus five.
All classmates except Morty: Ten.
Morty: Jessica. (Jessica hears Morty and looks back, confused, not sure who’s saying her name)
Mr. Goldenfold: Okay, good. It's time for the quiz.
Class: Awwwwww.
Mr. Goldenfold: Yeah, you know what?! Aw, too bad! Tough! First row, take one. Pass it back for me. The stakes are high in this room. (Morty stares at the quiz; the numbers on the quiz jumble together as Morty falls asleep) There's crucial things happening here every day. People getting smarter. Some of y'all getting dumber. Some of y'all ain't gonna see 3:00. (Morty falls into a dream world filled with large number-shaped blocks; Jessica steps out from behind some of the numbers)
Jessica: Hi, Morty.
Morty: Whoa! Hi, Jessica.
Jessica: Can I show these to you? (Jessica opens her shirt, showing Morty her breasts)
Morty: Wow. Th-they're both great. Thank you!
Jessica:  You know what I named these? My little Morties.
Morty: (rubs the back of his neck) Uh, that's flattering... and a little weird.
Jessica: Do you know what I want you to do with them?
Morty: Rename them?
Jessica: Squeeze them. Manhandle them. Give them the business. See if you can shuffle them. I mean, really get in there and knock them around. No wrong answers.
Morty: Wow. Well, okay, Jessica. L-let's give this a shot. (Morty grabs her breasts and starts fondling her)
Jessica: Mm. Oh, Morty. What are you doing to me?
Morty: Uh, I-I'm just doing my best. (in real life, class has ended and Morty is fondling Mr. Goldenfold)
Mr. Goldenfold: Morty! What are you doing to me?!
Morty: (sleep-talking) Ah, Jessica.
Mr. Goldenfold: Morty!
Morty: Jessica.
Mr. Goldenfold: Five more minutes of this, and I'm gonna get mad. (leans back and bites his lip)
Morty: Je-Jessica. Jessica.
Mr. Goldenfold: Not my fault this is happening.
[Cut to hallway]
Frank: (Morty is at his locker, where he is confronted by a bully, Frank Palicky) Well, well, well.
Morty: Uh, morning, Frank.
Frank: (pins Morty to his locker) "Morning"? What was what is that supposed to mean? You making fun of me? Are you trying to say my family's poor? (takes out a pocket knife and points it at Morty's neck)
Morty: Oh, geez, Frank. I don't know if a knife is necessary. I mean, you know, y-you kind of had things handled without it.
Frank: You telling me how to bully now? Big mistake, Morty and now I'm gonna cut you, 'cause my family's rich. (Frank suddenly freezes and Rick steps out from behind him)
Rick: There you are, Morty. Listen to me. I got an errand to run in a whole different dimension. I need an extra pair of hands.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick. W-w-what'd you do to Frank?
Rick: It's pretty obvious, Morty. I froze him. Now listen I need your help, Morty. I mean, we got we got to get get the hell out of here and go take care of business. (burps) It's important. Come on, Morty.
Morty: I don't know, Rick. I can't leave school again.
Rick: Do you have any concept of how much higher the stakes get out there, Morty? What do you think I can just do it all by myself? Come on!
Morty: Aw, geez. Okay. I guess I can skip history. What about Frank? I mean, shouldn't you unfreeze him?
Rick: I'll do it later, Morty. He'll be fine. Let's go. (takes off with Morty and then Summer comes by, seeing Frank's frozen body)
Summer (in her head): Oh, my God. I'm about to walk past Frank Palicky. This is the story we'll be telling our children. (walks up to Frank and talks to him, oblivious to the fact that he's frozen)
Summer: Hi, Frank. (Frank's frozen foot breaks and he drops to the ground and shatters into a million pieces, dying)
Summer: AAAAAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!!!!!
[Cut to horse hospital]
Beth: (performing heart surgery on a horse) Scalpel.
Davin: Scalpel. (Jerry enters the room)
Jerry: Knock, knock.
Beth: Jerry?
Jerry: My manager gave me an hour for lunch, and I thought, "hey, why not swing by where your wife works?" (The beeping from the medical equipment speeds up)
Tom: (offscreen) We're losing him. (Beth adjusts the horse's organs)
Tom: (offscreen) Okay, he's back.
Beth: Jerry, please tell me you're here for an incredibly urgent reason.
Jerry: Well, it's lunch. I mean, it's one of three meals that have existed for millennia. (the beeping speeds up again)
Tom: (offscreen) Losing him. (Beth adjusts the organs again)
Tom: (offscreen) Stabilized.
Beth: Okay, I only ask, Jerry, because, as you know, my job involves performing heart surgery.
Jerry: Well, yeah, on horses.
Beth: Excuse me?
Jerry: Okay, Let's not rehash that fight. I sense that you're busy and will now be on my way. (drops a pamphlet on the ground)
Jerry: Whoa! What is this on the floor? Some kind of literature for a really nice-looking nursing home. Hey, honey, crazy idea bad pitch let's put your dad here. Let's put your dad in a nursing home. (Beth looks at Jerry angrily and the equipment starts beeping faster again)
Tom: (offscreen) We're losing him.
Beth: Hey, Tom! We know when we're losing him. WE CAN HEAR THE BEEPS!
[Cut to alleyway]
Rick: There she is. All right. Come on, Morty. Let's go.
Morty: Oh, geez, okay. (Rick and Morty go through the portal and end up in a crazy alternate dimension)
Morty: Oh, man, Rick. What is this place?
Rick: It's Dimension 35-C, and it's got the perfect climate conditions for a special type of tree, Morty, called a Mega Tree, and there's fruit in those trees, and there's seeds in those fruits. I'm talking about Mega Seeds. They're they're incredibly powerful, and I need them to help me with my research, Morty.
Morty: Oh, man, Rick. I'm looking around this place, and I'm starting to work up some anxiety about this whole thing.
Rick: All right, all right, calm down. Listen to me, Morty. I know that new situations can be intimidating. You're looking around, and it's all scary and different, but, you know, m-meeting them head on, charging right into them like a bull that's how we grow as people. I'm no stranger to scary situations. I deal with them all the time. Now, if you just stick with me, Morty, we're gonna be— (a gigantic alien monster suddenly appears behind them)
Rick: HOLY CRAP, MORTY RUN!!! (they take off, running in complete and total fear as the monster chases them)
Rick: I never seen that thing before in my life. I don't even know what the hell it is! We got to get out of here, Morty! It's gonna kill us! We're gonna die! We're gonna die, Morty!
[Cut to black]
Rick: (having apparently escaped, they are walking through Dimension 35-C, continuing their adventure) Oh, Morty, take a deep breath. Breathe that breathe that fresh air in, Morty. Y-you smell that? That's the smell of adventure, Morty. That's that's the smell of-of-of-of a whole different evolutionary timeline.
Morty: All right, Rick, look how much longer is this gonna be? Shouldn't I be back at school by now?
Rick: Are you joking me? I mean, look at all the crazy crap surrounding us. Look at that thing right there. (a weird looking monster is seen cooing and rolling around on the ground) What the hell is that thing? You think you're gonna see that kind of thing at school? (offscreen) Look at it just lumbering around. (onscreen) It defies all logic, that thing.
Morty: Yeah, Rick, I get it. We're surrounded by monsters. That's kind of the reason why I want to leave. (they come up to a cliff and Rick stops him there)
Rick: Ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta. Morty, you see this? (he and Morty are looking down upon a vast forest of interdimensional trees)
Rick: You see what we just stumbled upon, Morty? Any idea what that is down there?
Morty: The mega trees?
Rick: That's right, Morty the mega trees with the mega fruit on them and that's what I'm talking about, Morty. That's where my seeds are. If we would have done what you wanted, I would have never have found them, because you're so in love with school.
Morty: All right, all right. So, what's so special about these seeds, anyways?
Rick: You ask a lot of questions, Morty. Not very charismatic. It makes you kind of an (burps) under- (burps) underfoot figure. (Rick gives Morty a pair of shoes and Morty proceeds to put them on)
Rick: Just take these shoes, Morty. They're (burps) special grappling shoes. When you're wearing these things, these babies, you can basically just walk on any surface you want, Morty up, down, below, turn around to the left. These things really bring it all together.
Morty: (walks off the cliff and plummets to the ground, screaming and smashing into rocks) AAAAAAAHHHH!!!!!!
Rick: You have to turn them on, Morty! The shoes have to be turned on!
[Cut to hospital]
Beth: I am not putting my father in a home! He just came back into my life, and you want to grab him and stuff him under a mattress like last month's Victoria's Secret?
Jerry: I told you I was ordering you something for Valentine's Day. More importantly, your father is a horrible influence on our son.
Davin: Everything cool in here, Beth?
Beth: It's fine, Davin.
Davin: Okay, cool. You know, we did something great today. There's nothing more noble and free than the heart of a horse. (Jerry closes the door on Davin)
Jerry: Since we're fighting, if you ever have an affair with that guy, I will come to the hotel room and blow my brains out all over your naked bodies.
Beth: Look, I appreciate the stress you're under, but Morty was having trouble in school way before my dad moved in, and the only influence I can see Rick having is that, for the first time in his life, Morty has a friend. (the phone starts ringing)
Jerry: (sighs) Well, maybe you're right.
Beth: Uh, yeah, maybe I am. I'm my father's daughter. I'm smart. Why do you think I'm a heart surgeon?
Jerry: (coughs) Ahem, Horse heart surgeon. (Beth answers the phone and gets a call from Morty's principal, Gene Vagina)
Principal Vagina: Hello? Mrs. Smith? This is Principal Vagina, no relation. I wonder if you and Morty's father might be able to have a chat with me this afternoon?
[Cut to Dimension 35-C]
Rick: (standing by Morty, who is lying on the ground with his legs broken) Morty, oh, you really d-did a number on (offscreen) your legs right now. You know, you got to turn (onscreen) the shoes on, Morty, for them to work. Yeah, look I turned mine on. I had no problem getting down here. It was a leisurely breeze.
Morty: I'm in a lot of pain, Rick!
Rick: Yeah, I can see that. But do you think you'll still be able to help me (burps) collect my seeds, Morty?
Morty: Are you kidding me?! That's it, Rick! That's the last straw! I can't believe this! I'm sitting here with both of my legs broken, and you're still asking me about getting those seeds?! Ooh! Ow! Oh! Y-y-you're a monster. Y-you're like Hitler, but-but even Hitler cared about Germany or something.
Rick: Okay, hold on just a second, Morty. (opens another portal and leaves Morty behind, lying on the ground to suffer for a few seconds)
Morty: Ooh! Ohh! Ooh! Hnngh! Hoo! Ooh! Ohh! Aaaaagh! Oooooh! (Rick finally returns and injects Morty's legs with medicine, healing them to perfection)
Morty: Ooh, Ohh, Ooh. Wow, Rick. That stuff just healed my broken legs instantly. I mean, I've never felt so good in my life. Thank you.
Rick: Don't worry about it, Morty. Just come help me get these seeds, all right, buddy?
Morty: Sure thing, Rick. (goes up the tree and gets the Mega Fruit while Rick talks to him)
Rick: Not that you asked, Morty, but what just happened there is I went into a future dimension with such advanced medicine that they had broken-leg serum at every corner drugstore. (offscreen) The stuff was all over the place, Morty.
Morty: Wow, that's pretty crazy, Rick.
Rick: There's just one problem, Morty one little hang-up. The dimension I visited was so advanced, that (burps) they had also halted the aging process, and everyone there was young, Morty, and they had been forever. I was the only old person there, Morty. (burps) It was like I was some sort of, you know, celebrity, walking around. I-I was fascinating to them. There were a lot of attractive women there, Morty, and they-they-they— they all wanted time with me. I had a lot of fun with a lot of young ladies, but I spent so much time there, my interdimensional portal device it's got no charge left, Morty. It's got no charge left.
Morty: What?!
Rick: It's as good as garbage, Morty. It's not gonna work anymore, Morty.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick, that's not good. W-what are we gonna do? I-I have to be back at school right now. How are we gonna get back home?
Rick: There's ways to get back home, Morty. It's just it's just gonna be a little bit of a hassle. We're gonna have to go through interdimensional customs, so you're gonna have to do me a real solid.
Morty: Uh-oh.
Rick: When we get to customs, I'm gonna need you to take these seeds into the bathroom, and I'm gonna need you to put them way up inside your butthole, Morty.
Morty: In my butt?
Rick: Put them way up inside there, as far as they can fit.
Morty: Oh, geez, Rick. I really don't want to have to do that.
Rick: Well, somebody's got to do it, Morty. Th-these seeds aren't gonna get through customs unless they're in someone's rectum, Morty
Morty: Uuuh.
Rick: And they'll fall right out of mine. I've done this too many times, Morty. I mean, you're young. Y-y-you've got your whole life ahead of you, and your anal cavity is still taut, yet malleable. You got to do it for grandpa, Morty. Y- (burps) you've got to put these seeds inside your butt.
Morty: In my butt?
Rick: Come on, Morty. Please, Morty. You have to do it, Morty.
Morty: Oh, man.
[Cut to high school]
Principal Vagina: The fact is, your son, Morty, has attended this school for a total of seven hours over the last two months.
Beth: What? Why didn't you notify us?
Principal Vagina: I done been notifying you. Have you not been getting the messages I've been leaving with Morty's grandfather?
Jerry: Boom! Told you! In your face! He is ruining our child! Wait, what am I celebrating?
Principal Vagina: Yeah, see, I thought something was fishy there, because it's usually Morty's grandpa that's taking him out of school. (they stop to see Summer and some other students, crying at an obituary for Frank)
Beth: Summer?
Summer: (sobs) What kind of God lets this happen?
Principal Vagina: We had a little incident. A student was frozen to death. (chuckles) And there's no evidence that a Latino student did it! Everyone wants to take this to a racial place. I won't let them.
[Cut to Intergalactic Customs]
Announcer: The glarp zone is for flarping and unglarping only.
Alien: So, I told him, "give me the blimfarx," you know? This-this guy he doesn't understand interstellar currency.
Alien: It's, like, I'm trying to eat a flimflam like, that's what we eat on Girvonesk.
Announcer: The glarp zone is for flarping and unglarping only.
Rick: (Morty comes up to him, who is waiting in line to get through security) I don't like it here, Morty. I can't abide bureaucracy. I don't like being told where to go and what to do. I consider it a violation. Did you get those seeds all the way up your butt?
Morty: Yeah, Rick. Let's just get this over with, okay? I mean, these things are pointy. They hurt.
Rick: That means they're good ones. You're a good kid, Morty. Those mega seeds are super valuable to my work. You've been a huge help to me. I'm gonna be able to do a-
(burps) all kind of things with them. It's gonna be great, Morty. A- (burps) all kinds of science. (aliens are going through security with a Gromflomite, letting them through)
Gromflomite: Okay, next through. (stops Morty) Except you. You go over there.
Rick: Why does he have to go over there?
Gromflomite: Random check. He's got to go through the new machine.
Rick: What new- (burps) what new machine?
Gromflomite: It's a new machine. It detects stuff all the way up your butt.
Rick: Run, Morty! Run! (grabs Morty and they run through security and dart for the exit)
Morty: Aaaaaah!
Gromfomite: Red alert! (team of Gromflomites starts chasing after Rick and Morty)
Morty: Ohhhhh! (Rick pushes over a giant capsule, with an alien fetus over, smashing some Gromflomites, to slow them down)
Morty: Ohhhhhh! (an alien is seen smoking a hookah and Morty runs past him and accidentally inhales the smoke from the hookah while Rick comes from behind and slaps the alien in the face, causing the alien to cry; he then coughs up a life form from the smoke and the lifeform starts running through the glarp zone and goes through the entire aging process from developing fetus to decomposing corpse, over the course of three seconds)
Morty: Aaaaah!
Rick: Don't think about it! (he and Morty are cornered but Morty activates the grappling shoes and runs up the wall with Rick)
Rick: Ooh! Oh, nice, Morty! The student becomes the teacher. (the Gromflomites reveal that they can fly and then Rick and Morty start running away)
Morty: Whoooooo! (he and Rick run through the equipment on the ceiling, before they slip off to the ground)
Alien: Aah! Aw, hell, no, dawg. You know me I'm just trying to— (Rick and Morty crash to the ground and he dies; they then run to the portal computer)
Rick: I need to type in the coordinates to our home world, Morty. Cover me. (he tosses Morty a gun)
Morty: Oh, man. I mean, you know, I-I don't want to shoot nobody.
Rick: They're just robots, Morty! It's okay to shoot them! They're robots! (Morty shoots a Glenn, blowing his leg off, and making blood gush out as he drops down in pain)
Glenn: Aaaaah! My leg is shot off!
Other Gromflomite: Glenn's bleeding to death! Someone call his wife and children!
Morty: They're not robots, Rick!
Rick: It's a figure of speech, Morty. They're bureaucrats. I don't respect them. Just keep shooting, Morty. You have no idea what prison is like here! (Morty continues shooting the Gromflomites and even kills some innocent bystanders while Rick hacks into the portal to take them back home)
Morty: Holy crap! This is insane! (Rick opens the portal and takes Morty in with him)
Rick: Come on, Morty! We got to get the hell out of here! (the portal opens up in the lunchroom at school and Rick and Morty land on the table where Jessica and her friends are eating)
Jessica: Wow. Did you just come into the cafeteria through a portal?
Morty: Uh, yeah. Well, you know, my-my Ferrari's in the shop. (nervously laughs) Just kidding.
Jessica: You're Morty, right?
Morty: Yeah. (Rick grabs Morty and takes him way)
Rick: You can get his number later. Come on, Morty. We got to get out of here. You got to get those seeds out of your ass. (Rick and Morty are stopped by Jerry, Beth, and Principal Vagina)
Jerry: Oh, look, honey. It's our son with Albert Ein-douche.
Beth: What?
Jerry: I'm an angry father, not an improviser.
Rick: Oh, hi, Jerry. Oh, my goodness, Morty! What are you doing out of class? We talked about this. Your-your parents and I are very disappointed in-in this behavior... No? No takers? (Rick and Morty are back at home in the garage while Jerry and Beth start taking all his things and packing them up so he can move to the nursing home)
Rick: You guys should really not be touching that stuff. It's beyond your reasoning.
Jerry: You're beyond our reasoning!
Rick: Takes one to know one.
Beth: Dad, how could you make my son miss an entire semester of school? I mean, it's not like he's a hot girl. He can't just bail on his life and set up shop in someone else's.
Rick: What what are you guys doing with my stuff?
Beth: We're moving you to a nursing home.
Rick: A nursing home? What are what are you, nuts? I'm a genius. I build robots for fun.
Jerry: Well, now you can build baskets and watch Paul Newman movies on VHS and mentally scar the Boy Scouts every Christmas.
Beth: What does that mean?
Jerry: It's personal.
Morty: Dad, mom, come on. Rick just needed my help is all.
Jerry: Morty, stay out of this. You are obviously not capable of judging these situations on your own.
Rick: What are you trying to say about Morty? That he's stupid or something?
Beth: Oh, don't high-road us, dad. You know fully well that Morty is the last child that needs to be missing classes.
Rick: I-I-I don't know what you mean by that. Can can can you be a little bit more specific?
Jerry: Oh, for crying out—he's got some kind of disability or something. Is that what you want us to say?
Morty: I do?
Jerry: Well, duh doy, son. Look, I love you, Morty, but we both know you're not as fast as the other kids, and if you want to compete in this world, you got to work twice as hard.
Morty: Aw, geez, dad. Y-you know, that's a lot to drop on a kid all at once.
Rick: Morty, t-tell your parents the square root of pi.
Morty: Oh, come on, Rick. You know I can't.
Rick: The square root of Pi, Morty. Go!
Morty: 1.77245385... Whoa!
Beth: What the hell?
Jerry: (checks Morty's answer with calculator) Holy crap. He's right.
Rick: Morty, tell your parents the first law of Thermodynamics.
Morty: "The increment in the internal energy of a system is equal to the increment of heat supplied to the system." Wow! I'm so smart!
Jerry: But—
Rick: I told the both of you school is stupid. It's not how you learn things. Morty's a gifted child. He has a special mind. That's why he's my little helper. He's like me. He's gonna be doing great science stuff later in his life. He's too smart for school. He needs to keep hanging out and helping me.
Beth: Jerry, I don't want whatever's happening here to stop.
Jerry: No, I-I understand. Uh, maybe we overreacted. But he has to keep going to school.
Rick: Okay, Jerry. You drive a hard bargain, but what am I supposed to do? Say no? You-you really wear the pants around here. I just want you to know, between us, from now on, it's gonna be clear communication. (Summer butts in, crying over the death of Frank)
Summer: (crying) Frank Palicky was frozen to death today!
Rick: No idea what you're talking about. (Summer leaves, crying)
Jerry: Okay. Well, uh, Morty, it's your bedtime in an hour. Don't stay up all night again. This is good, though. This can work. I think we can be a family and now, Beth, if you'll have me, I would love to have you.
Beth: You know what? Okay. (she and Jerry leave)
Morty: Holy cow, Rick. I didn't know hanging out with you was making me smarter.
Rick: Full disclosure, Morty it's not. Temporary superintelligence is just a side effect of the mega seeds dissolving in your rectal cavity.
Morty: Aw, man.
Rick: Yeah, and once those seeds wear off, you're gonna lose most of your motor skills, and you're also gonna lose a significant amount of brain functionality for 72 hours, Morty.
Starting right about now.
Morty: Ohh, man. (losing consciousness) Oh, geez! Ohh. (drops to the ground and starts moaning as he has a seizure)
Rick: I'm sorry, Morty. It's a bummer. In reality, you're as dumb as they come and I needed those seeds real bad, and I had to give them up just to get your parents off my back, so now we're gonna have to go get more. (excitedly looks down upon him, telling him about their future adventures) And then we're gonna go on even more adventures after that, Morty and you're gonna keep your mouth shut about it, Morty, because the world is full of idiots that don't understand what's important, and they'll tear us apart, Morty but if you stick with me, I'm gonna accomplish great things, Morty, and you're gonna be part of them, and together, we're gonna run around, Morty. We're gonna do all kinds of wonderful things, Morty. Just you and me, Morty. The outside world is our enemy, Morty. We're the only friends we've got, Morty. It's just Rick and Morty. Rick and Morty and their adventures, Morty. Rick and Morty forever and forever. Morty's things. Me and Rick and Morty running around, and Rick and Morty time. All day long, forever. All a hundred days. Rick and Morty forever 100 times. Over and over, rickandmortyadventures.com. All 100 years. Every minute, rickandmorty.com.
Owl 1: Give it a second. Maybe he’s taking it out to surrender.

(A purple flame aura forms around Rick and he jumps into the air. He slams the owl into the ground, creating a deep crater. Then, he picks a white flower and drops it onto the owl’s body.)

Short alien man: He’s anti-heroic, run!

Owl 2: I don’t understand.

Owl 3: He’s only one man!

Rick: With the power of a thousand crows!

(Rick lifts his cloak and crows fly out. The crows fly into Owl 3, bloating his body.)

Owl 3: Good luck.

(Owl 3 explodes.)

Owl 2: Crows and owls have always been at war, but why do you care? What’s the point?

Rick: Here’s two.

(Metal wings unfold on Rick’s back. He slices the owl with both wings, killing her.)

Morty: Haha, yeah, cool.

Rick: Morty?

Morty: H-hey man. G-good to see you. Y-you’re like, looking like, into crows. Still.

Rick: Oh, uh, two crows, you remember Morty. Morty, two crows. It’s good to see you, but give me more of a heads-up.

Morty: Oh well I-I was just in the neighborhood, i-it wasn’t like—

Rick: It’s just that the battle for crows is kinda never-ending.

Morty: Huh. Right. A little pointless then, right? That… came out wrong. S-sounded judgey.

Crow-horse: Crow-horse. Crow-horse. Crow-horse.

Two crows: Caw, caw, caw.

Morty: Okay. It looks like— it looks like they’re leading you to a thing.

Rick: Take care, Morty.

Morty: You-you too. U-uh I’m doing good, by the way. Oh, my dad was gonna eat that yogurt you left in the fridge, but I-I told him—

[ANIME OPENING]

Kaze ni nori tobitachi (I’m riding on the winds)

Kuroi tsubasa hiroge (We are soaring with our black wings)

Itsumademo issho ni tatakau (Forever we will fight together)

Soranohate made (Beyond the sky)

Kimi to (With you)

[TITLE CARD: 'RICK AND TWO CROWS']

[Ext. Field, afternoon]

(Rick rides Crow-horse across a yellow field.)

[Trans. Tavern, night]

(Rick approaches the tavern.)

[Trans. Int. Tavern]

(Rick enters the tavern and is met with unfriendly stares.)

Rick: Ahem. I’m lookin’ for Crowscare. The scarecrow. The evil scarecrow. Come on, whoever gives him up first lives.

(Someone coughs. None of the tavern patrons speak.)

Rick: Fine, I can kill an extra asshole. Helps me get my steps in.

(A weapon sails at Rick’s head. He ducks and it flies through the air, decapitating several patrons. The weapon returns to the hands of a tiger man.)

[NAME CARD: PUSSIFER]

(Rick and Pussifer fight. Rick ends up pinned down on the floor.)

Morty: Rick!

Rick: Morty?

(Rick disappears in a puff of smoke and a log is left in his place.)

Pussifer: Wood?!

(Rick appears behind Pussifer and stabs him through with his sword.)

Pussifer: Gahhh!

Rick: Uh, Morty. Why are you now like forty?

Morty: Th-that’s how long it’s been, Rick.

(Rick and Morty sit down at a table together.)

Rick: Oh. Um, I guess we can have a drink together then.

(A waiter comes over with two beers.)

Morty: Do you have a rum and coke?

Waiter: What are you, twenty?

Morty: Oh-ho-ho. Bless your heart.

Rick: Time be going by, don’t she?

Morty: That’s your reaction to finding out you wasted your entire life?

Rick: I feel okay.

Morty: Well-well, what about me?

Rick: Woah. Excuse us boys, you don’t wanna be here for this.

Two crows: Caw.

(The two crows fly off of Rick’s shoulders.)

Morty: I thought if I gave you enough space, you’d outgrow this phase.

(The waiter returns with Morty's rum and coke.)

Waiter: Here’s your drink, poser.

Morty: Dad got sick, you know. Stage four. Heh, you woulda loved it. Summer’s a nurse. Well, pretty much a nurse. Sh-she married a junkie. Rick, come home. While we still got a little time.

Rick: Morty, what we had wasn’t healthy.

Morty: And this is? Y-y-you had a thousand adventures with these crows. When are you gonna kill their Big Bad?

Rick: First off, the will-they kill-they is everything to my guys. And second, fuck you for trying to undermine my happiness.

Morty: This may be the last time you lay eyes on me!

(Rick stands up and heads for the door.)

Rick: I hope that’s not true, Morty. Because you look like sh-urrp-shit, and this is not how I wanna remember you.

[Ext. Giant Treehouse]

(Crow-horse sits on a branch outside the treehouse.)

[Trans. Int. Bedroom]

(Rick and the two crows are asleep in a nest bed. The two crows get up and fly out the window. Rick, facing away from the window, has his eyes open.)

[Ext. Crowscare’s Lair]

(Rick approaches the lair on foot. He hears a voice coming from inside.)

Crowscare: Now that I have his two crows, nothing will stop me from eliminating Crow Rick!

Two crows: Caw, caw, caw.

Crowscare: Don’t defend him to me, I don’t even get what you see in him.

Two crows: Caw, caw.

Crowscare: You’re right, we should be enjoying the time we have together.

(Rick kicks down the door.)

Crowscare: Crow Rick!

Two crows: Caw.

(Crowscare lifts up a map as though he’s pulling up sheets to cover his chest.)

Crowscare: Oh, I know what this must look like but—

Rick: Looks like my arch-nemesis Crowscare and my sidekicks planning adventures together.

Crowscare: You are hardly the victim here. I was adventuring with these two crows before you ever came along.

(Rick looks around the room. There are photos of Crowscare and the two crows on the wall. The bathroom door is open and he sees three toothbrushes.)

[NAME CARD: 3 TOOTHBRUSHES]

Two crows: Caw, caw, caw.

Rick: What do you mean, ‘using me as a rebound’?

Two crows: Caw.

Rick: You feel like I was using you as a rebound too? Well shit, this lost all meaning. Guess it could’ve been worse. At least ‘adventuring’ was just a metaphor for romantic partnership so it’s not a real breakup.

Crowscare: Speak for yourself. We immensely enjoy each other’s bodies.

Rick: What?! Eugh, no!

Crowscare: Sounds like the man’s asking for proof! Let’s show him, fellas!

Two crows: Caw, caw, caw.

Crowscare: Ah, aah.

Rick: I-I asked for zero proof! Zero proof!

[Trans. Ext. Smith House, day]

(Rick lands in front of the house on Crow-horse’s back.)

Rick: I’m giving you free will. Yah!

(Rick opens a panel in Crow-horse's hip. He presses a button, closes the panel, and slaps Crow-horse’s hindquarters. Crow-horse runs off screen.)

Crow-horse: Submit to Crow-horse!

(People scream off-screen.)

Rick: Whoops.

(Rick rings the doorbell. Morty opens the door.)

Morty: R-rick?

Rick: Wubba lubba dub dub! I’m back, pal!

Jerry: Morty, who’s at the door?

Rick: Wait a minute, I thought you died gruesomely. W-what the hell’s going on here?

Morty: See, um th-the thing is, uh—

Beth: Can you please make Morty fourteen again, dad? This is ridiculous.

Morty: Okay, look, I-I may have used an aging serum to kind of emotionally blackmail you a little.

Rick: I kinda figured and I totally get it, Morty. I-I’m done with the two crows, like they were super clingy and I’m ready to make this work.

Morty: Let’s just hit the reset button.

Beth: Well no, honey, not a reset, okay? Tell your grandpa that you’re worthy of his respect and you wanna be treated differently from now on.

Morty: I refuse to do that, I’m desperate to get back together.

Jerry: Just like his old man.

Rick: Don’t worry honey, that’s just Morty’s middle age talking. He’ll be less codependent once we get more of his life in front of him again.

Summer: Uh, I’d like him to stay forty so he can keep buying my friends molly. I’d rather throw my vote away than use it to support a flawed system.

Morty: Can we make our first adventure fixing this? I-I keep thinking about lawn care.

Rick: Okay buddy, who sold you this shitty aging serum? What did he look like?

Morty: Just like you. I-I got it from the Citadel.

Rick: Hot damn! Hitting the ground running with a Citadel episode. See you later, masturbators.

[Ext. Citadel Plaza]

(A portal appears and Rick and Morty step through.)

Andy: Hi! I’m the Citadel’s new mascot, Andy! Because this place wouldn’t be home without Ricks aaand-ey Mortys!

Morty: Dumb.

Rick: Oof, what happened to this place?

Morty: There’s a Morty president now.

Rick: Ah, that’s cute. They rebuilt, and made it nicer.

Morty: They made it Glendale.

Rick: Goddamn you are cantankerous.

Morty: Even pooping hurts now.

Rick: Yeah, well, this place is gonna fix you right up.

(They arrive in front of the Re-Build-a-Morty.)

[Int. Re-Build-a-Morty]

(Morty is inside a glass pod. Rick and an employee Morty stand in front of it.)

Employee Morty: Okay, so… we’ve got a standard Morty that’s been aged to forty.

Rick: Can you reverse it?

Employee Morty: Well if you look at it like a bone, what we can do is break his age in two places, remove the middle and graft its ends back together.

Morty: Th-th-that sounds really violent.

Rick: It’s not a literal bone, Morty.

Morty: Oh, Okay.

Employee Morty: Brace yourself, the process does also break every bone in your body.

Morty: Wait, ahhhh! Ooh, ow!

(Morty is split into thirds and two of them become toddler Mortys.)

Toddler Morty 1: I like crayons.

Toddler Morty 2: Girls are gross.

(The two toddler Mortys are pressed together into a fourteen year old Morty. Morty steps out of the pod.)

Morty: I-I-I think I feel like myself again.

Rick: Eh, you look a little weird. Your skin’s all pink like a baby mouse. Is that normal?

Employee Morty: Probably. Uh, sign here for storage or disposal of the twenty-six years we removed.

Rick: Wait, what? I ain’t payin’ to store twenty-six years.

Employee Morty: Well, then you’re taking it with you.

(A twenty-six year old Morty steps out of the pod.)

Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: I’m almost ready to sell out.

Rick: Alright, what’s disposal cost?

(Outside, a deformed Morty is being beaten up by a pair of police Mortys.)

Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: S-something unfair’s happening!

(Twenty-six year old Morty runs outside.)

[Ext. Re-Build-a-Morty]

(A deformed Morty is wrestling a police Morty for his gun.)

Deformed Morty: There’s no escape! No escape!

Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: Let me help you, this is not a good look!

(Twenty-six year old Morty tackles the deformed Morty and one of the police Mortys to the ground. The other police Morty shoots.)

[Int. Re-Build-a-Morty]

(Rick and Morty are watching the events unfold outside.)

Rick: Oh boy.

Morty: Hey, they shot me!

[Ext. Re-Build-a-Morty]

(Deformed Morty has successfully taken the gun from one of the police Mortys, and is pointing the gun at the second police Morty. Twenty-six year old Morty is lying on the ground with a gunshot wound. Morty holds his twenty-six year old self.)

Police Morty: You are seriously hurting the Citadel experience!

Deformed Morty: Listen to me!

Police Morty: Drop the gun!

Deformed Morty: Death is coming for us all, and the Citadel is a weapon of mass destruc—

(Deformed Morty is shot through the head. Rick exits the Re-Build-a-Morty.)

Rick: Woof. You’re about to get suspended with pay. Come on, Morty. Let’s get out of here before this gets political.

Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: U-uh. Was I influential?

Morty: Yeah, y-you were influential. You had like seven— seven blogs.

Twenty-Six Year Old Morty: Tight. Uh.

(Twenty-six year old Morty dies. A Secret Service car arrives.)

Rick: Ugh. Too late.

Secret Service Rick: C-137. President Morty requests you join him for dinner.

Morty: Woah! S-seriously?

Rick: You know I destroyed this place?

Secret Service Rick: You’ve been pardoned for that, sir.

Morty: Rick, let’s have dinner with the Morty president.

Rick: Morty, the idea was to get back to simple adventures. The Citadel runs on canon.

Morty: Okay. I guess things really are going right back to how they were.

Rick: Fine, I could eat. But the second he reveals he’s evil, we’re gone.

[Int. President Mort’s Dining Room]

(Rick and Morty sit across from each other at a dining table. The seat at the head is empty. Morty tests Rick’s food.)

Morty: I don’t know. Tastes pretty good.

(Rick takes his plate of food.)

Rick: Okay, let me know if you start feeling poisony. Good to have you back, buddy.

(Morty slides his own plate onto his placemat. The door opens and President Morty enters.)

President Morty: Sorry I’m late. Never really ends around here.

Rick: Look at this Morty. They really did make a you the president.

President Morty: And I hate ‘em every day for it. But wow, Rick C-137. Now that’s a guy to move your schedule around for. Not-not here to blow the place up again, I hope. Ha ha.

Rick: Ha. Not unless you try to keep me here.

President Morty: Geez, wouldn’t dream of it. But it’s amazing you dropped by because I was eventually gonna hunt you down.

Rick: There’s the reveal. Let’s dance.

(Rick takes out his gun and points it at President Morty.)

President Morty: Ha, geez.

Morty: Come on, man. The guy got elected president. By Ricks and Mortys. He’s being really nice.

Rick: All politicians are nice.

(Rick puts away his gun.)

President Morty: He’s a hot bag of peanuts, isn’t he?

Morty: We’ve been through a lot, a-and he does not like—

Rick: Serialized drama.

President Morty: Right, no drama. Keep it episodic. Ricks never look back. Waste of a legend in his case. You know, he practically built this place.

Morty: Wait, what?

Rick: And now you're running it squeaky clean, right? That’s why you got deformed Mortys comin’ up through the sewer lines talking about ‘hope’ and ‘change’.

President Morty: Fair enough.

Morty: Good clap-back, Rick. What’s the deal with that, Mr. P?

President Morty: I got a little project going on, acquired some hands-on labor. It would require less if you were willing to tell me how one might bring down the Central Finite Curve.

Rick: Alright, time to go Morty.

Morty: I wanna know what he’s talking about.

President Morty: Yeah, you’ve come all this way. Can you give me ten more seconds?

Rick: Literally ten? Because now it would be six.

President Morty: Oh, I’m fine with that. Make it two… one. Like I said, would’ve been a big help for you to tell me, but I should have everything I need from you now. Let me just make sure…

(Morty checks the brain-scanning device.)

Rick: You can’t scan an entire brain over appetizers.

President Morty: Oh, most of yours got scanned a looong time ago.

(Restraints come out of the chairs, holding Rick and Mort in place.)

President Morty: You probably don’t remember.

(The scene freezes, and Rick Stan Lee pops up at the bottom of the screen.)

Rick Stan Lee: Check out season one, episode nine, Rickheads. Excel-uurp-cior!

(Rick Stan Lee disappears and the scene resumes.)

Rick: Evil Rick.

Morty: We kicked his ass.

President Morty: Evil Rick. I love it. Smartest man in the universe, with an ego so big you could just grab it like a joystick.

(The brain-scanner stops projecting Rick’s memories.)

President Morty: Looks complete. I was afraid I’d have to kill every Rick on the Citadel to get what I needed.

Morty: You asshole! I vouched for you! He only came here because I asked him to. I’m sorry, Rick.

Rick: That apology and a screwdriver in my hand would be worth one screwdriver.

President Morty: Pfft, you sell-out Mortys kill me. I’d hate you more than the Ricks you worship if there was any point. But you can’t help it; you were bred for it. Wanna see?

(President Morty sticks the brain-scanner into Morty’s neck.)

President Morty: You already know rogue Ricks used Mortys to hide themselves from the Citadel. But you might not know it worked so well that the Citadel became its own Morty market. And I’m sure you don’t know how far they’ve gone to help supply meet demand. Sure, Ricks could scour infinity for naturally-occurring grandsons, but why bother? So much work. Such an admission of need. There are infinite versions of our grandfather, Morty. He’s an infinite smear of one shitty old man, and he’s attached to us infinitely through his weakness and our forgiveness. This is why we’re with him. This is why we’re alive.

(Morty sees a montage of Mortys being used as a cloaking shield, Citadel labs, Citadel Ricks pairing up Jerrys and Beths, Mortys going through assembly lines, and Mortys getting paired with Ricks.)

Morty: What the fuck?! Rick, say this isn’t true!

Rick: It isn’t the whole truth.

Morty: Liar!

President Morty: Liar.

Rick: It’s complicated!

Morty: I’m not busy!

Rick: Okay, Morty, remember when all I said I needed was your apology and a screwdriver in my hand? Well, I forgot I literally have a screwdriver in my hand. I mean, duh-doi, I’m basically Inspector Gadget.

(Rick frees himself from the chair’s restraints. He draws his gun and shoots at President Rick as he jumps over the table to Morty. President Morty is unimpressed, as the shot bounces off a forcefield.)

President Morty: Uh oh.

(Rick frees Morty from his restraints. The Rick Guards at the door aim their guns at Rick.)

President Morty: It’s okay, he’s free to go. He’s the Rickest Rick. We’ll never see him again.

(Rick opens a portal, then stops when he notices President Morty’s smug face.)

Rick: Morty, when you came here for that serum did you refill this gun?

Morty: Yeah.

(Rick grabs one of the guards and shoves him into the portal. The portal sends the guard to the Blender Dimension.)

Morty: Holy shit!

Rick: I only know one man that ever hacked my Portal Gun, and it turned out it was evil you.

President Morty: Yay. He’s all caught up.

(President Morty pushes a button on a remote control and four elite Rick Guards drop down from the ceiling.)

Rick: Wait! Hold it, hold it!

(Rick uses some of his blood and a vial of purple liquid to create Big Boy.)

Morty: Wh-who’s that?

Rick: Time for Big Boy. Duck!

(The guards attack Rick, but all the damage is redirected from Rick to Big Boy.)

Morty: Does he like it?

Rick: He’s a metaphor for capitalism, Morty. What do you think?

(Rick uses the stored energy from being attacked to take out the Rick Guards and break down the door. Rick reaches his arm across the room and grabs the brain-scanning device from the table.)

Rick: Yoink!

President Morty: You can’t outrun your past, Rick.

(Rick turns and shoots President Morty. It is blocked by the forcefield.)

President Morty: Tch, did you think my forcefield would be down the second time?

Rick: I was expressing disapproval of your dialogue!

(Rick and Morty exit the room.)

President Morty: Ahaha. Disapprove all you want. Tonight, the quality of dialogue stops mattering. Tonight, I do that thing I wanna do, with the Curve thing.

[Ext. Citadel plaza]

Loudspeaker system: Nobody leave, everybody stay. Nobody leave, everybody stay. Nobody leave, everybody stay.

(Ricks and Mortys try using their Portal Guns, only to find that their portals have been rerouted to deadly dimensions.)

[Int. Citadel News Room]

Rick D716: In uncertain times like these, I think it’s important for me to say: Eat shit, fuck you! The drug companies paid for me to say every word, I have millions of dollars, and I don’t care— oh god oh fuck no, oh—

(Tentacles come out of the portal D716 opened up and pull him in. Rick D716-B enters the room and sits down at the anchor news desk.)

'Rick D716-B: And I’d just like to say that prescription drugs are great and you should buy them now.

[Ext. Citadel]

(Rick and Morty run out of the building as fires blaze around them and portals kill other Ricks and Mortys.)

Morty: What’s happening, Rick?

Rick: He hacked the entire city’s portal supply. Come on, there still might be one way out of here. Out the bottom.

(Rick puts on a visor and picks up Morty. Using the visor, he cuts a circle in the ground around his feet. The two of them drop into the sewers.)

[Ext. Citadel]

(All across the Citadel, fires are burning.)

[Int. Citadel Sewers]

(Rick and Morty drop down. Rick removes the visor.)

Morty: What do you think he needed from your brain?

Rick: I assume schematics for the Citadel’s Dimensional Drive. If he’s gonna use it to blow the Curve, we do not wanna be here.

Morty: What is the Central Finite Curve?

Rick: Q and A after our survival. Hopefully we can snag some untainted fluid at the source and get the fuck outta here.

(They reach tubes of portal gun fluid, which drain before their eyes.)

Rick: Or not.

(All the tubes in the cavern drain into a single pool as Rick and Morty go down a set of stairs.)

Rick: Wow. I thought my capitalism metaphor was on the nose.

(Deformed Mortys are performing labor while being whipped by a uniformed Rick.)

Morty: So did you help build the Citadel? Did you just lie to me about everything?

Rick: Can’t you just sneak through the cave base? We turned a new leaf, Morty. We’re back to simple adventures.

Morty: It’s not a new leaf until you tell me everything.

Rick: Morty, we really don’t have time for this. The whole place is gonna blow.

Morty: No, I-I don’t trust you. I-I-I don’t wanna do this anymore if I’m not gonna get straight answers from you.

Rick: Goddammit. Here’s my fucking downloaded brain, Morty. You wanna jump the shark? You wanna know my stupid crybaby backstory? Knock yourself out.

(Rick holds out the brain-scanning device. Morty grabs it and immediately sticks it into his neck.)

Rick: No-not now!

[MEMORY FLASHBACKS]

(Past Rick is in his garage, talking to a Rick with a Portal Gun. The Rick leaves.

Past Rick is in his car. A bomb drops out of a portal and kills Diane and Beth.

A paramedic examines Past Rick, who is wrapped in a shock blanket.

Past Rick sits in a run-down apartment. His hair is disheveled, he has a stained tank top on and he’s unshaved.

Past Rick creates a prototype Portal Gun. He embarks on a journey into the cosmos.

Past Rick lays on a blanket on a pizza planet. His signature spaceship is now with him. He runs from behind a slice of pizza and scans a telephone man with a handheld device.

Past Rick sits in an arctic environment, taking readings on a scanner.

The Story Train flies by.

Past Rick is given an arms dealer’s card. He delivers weapons to a group of aliens. They hand him a crystal. When he heads for the exit, the aliens aim guns at his back, but he presses a button on a remote and blows them up. In his ship, Past Rick uses the crystal to complete a helmet that allows him to print out an image from his memory: the Rick who killed Diane and Beth.

Past Rick shows the photo to a man living in a rundown town. The man shakes his head.

Past Rick, now with longer hair and a gun, eats at a bar with Birdperson. They rise from their seats and head outside. Past Rick and Birdperson fight bugs of the Galactic Federation in the streets.

Past Rick secretly visits the garage of a different Rick. He checks the map on the workbench and records the star cluster circled on it. He travels there and kills three Ricks, comparing the one inside the building to the photo of the Rick he’s hunting. It isn’t a match. On the wall, there is a banner with a symbol on it; photos of other Ricks are connected to it by red string.

Past Rick tracks down and kills the Ricks from the photos: at a nightclub, at a house on another planet, in a futuristic maze. The Rick in the center of the maze has acquired a case with the future Council’s insignia on it. Out of it he pulls a box with a glowing sphere inside it. Past Rick shoots him. The other Rick destroys the box and Past Rick kills him, then compares him to the photo. Again, no match.

Past Rick is older and an alcoholic. He sits in the ruined garage with dead Ricks strewn about the yard. Portals open and Ricks with weapons emerge. He kills them all the moment they appear.

In a theater, Ricks are having a conference on the threat Past Rick poses. Past Rick portals into the theater and kills the Rick at the podium. He blows up the theater, but spares the two surviving Ricks when they beg for their lives.

Past Rick sits at a table with four other Ricks, recognizable as members of the Council. They show him a plan for the Citadel. Past Rick is disgusted.

Later, Past Rick flies by the completed Citadel and crash lands in a world where Beth is still alive. The garage is on fire and Beth looks at Rick with tears in her eyes.

Past Rick shows Morty how to use a portal gun.

Past Rick and Morty are laughing together in a field. The vision zooms out from that point to show the entire Finite Curve, all the orbs of the many different universe with Ricks and Mortys.)

(Morty comes out of the memory trance.)

Morty: Woah. Dead wife?

(Rick puts Morty down.)

Rick: Yes. Now everyone can shut up about it.

Morty: Wow, Rick. I feel a lot better having seen all that.

(A light comes on ahead of them.)

President Morty: Of course that’s the case. In their minds, they’re the underdog.

(Rick shoots at President Morty, but the shot ricochets off the glass barrier.)

President Morty: And that’s how they justify this.

(President Morty presses a button on a remote. Images of Ricks from across the Finite Curve materialize around them. Rick laughing at an injured Morty. Rick giving Morty a wedgie. Rick with Morty in a chokehold.

The view changes and more scenes are visible. In one orb, there’s an image of Rick holding a bloody knife. In another, Rick is passed out drunk on a bed. Yet another shows Rick with flames behind him.)

Rick: Morty, I’m not responsible for every fucked up Rick out there.

President Morty: They literally all say that. They all have that excuse; it’s part of their system. None of them have to be responsible, they're all victims of themselves. ‘Oh, it’s so hard to be a genius. Couldn’t you just die?’

Morty: Well what are you doin’ about it?

President Morty: Jack shit. I’m leaving. Do you know what the Central Finite Curve is? They built a wall around infinity, separated all the infinite universes from all the infinite universes where he’s the smartest man in the universe. Every version of us has spent every version of all of our lives in one infinite crib, built around an infinite fucking baby.

(Events from various universes on the Finite Curve are shown: Rick sitting at his workbench with a pained expression, Rick wearing his ‘King of Shit’ crown, an injured Morty holding an injured Rick, Rick sadly sitting down in a chair next to a device with a memory tube in it.)

President Morty: And I’m leaving it. That’s what makes me ‘evil’, being sick of him. If you’ve ever been sick of him, you’ve been evil too.

Morty: Rick, did you really leave the crows for me? Or did you come back because they dumped you?

(Rick looks away and says nothing.)

President Morty: There you go, kid. Now you’re Evil Morty too. Sooner or later, we all are, on this side of the Curve.

(President Morty puts on an eyepatch and presses the top right corner, activating a beam from the Dimensional Drive. A hole starts opening in the Curve.)

[Ext. Citadel, Plaza and Tramway]

(Portal fluid bursts from the ground, sweeping away everything in its path. Explosions occur across the Citadel, which tilts on its axis.)

Orange Afro Rick: Don’t worry, Morty. We still got a way out they never thought of. Operation Phoenix.

Orange Afro Morty: Doesn’t that still mean, like, death?

(Orange Afro Rick pulls out a gun and hands it to his Morty.)

Orange Afro Rick: Sure, but the joke’s on them cuz we just found a backdoor to getting off this rock.

(Orange Afro Morty shoots his Rick. A pillar falls on him, crushing him to death.)

[Trans. Int. Operation Phoenix Vats]

(Orange Afro Morty opens his eyes in a vat.)

Female computer voice: Rerouted. Rerouted. Rerouted.

(Ricks and Mortys wake up in vats with blender blades at the bottom. They are liquefied, and the blood is sent to power the beam opening a hole in the Finite Curve.)

Female computer voice: Rerouted. Rerouted. Rerouted.

(The vats are shown to be in the chamber that Rick, Morty, and President Morty are standing in. As the machine is fed blood, the beam from the Dimensional Drive grows stronger.)

Morty: Oh my fucking god!

Rick: Come on Morty, we gotta go!

(The room shakes and debris falls from the ceiling. Rick is trapped underneath a heavy plank of wood.)

Morty: Woah!

President Morty: You can come if you want.

(President Morty, now in a spacesuit, steps out of the glass dome around the control panel. A small spaceship is next to him.)

President Morty: Don’t blame me if you don’t.

Rick: Ugh. From where I sit, Morty, that’s the best deal on the table. I-I don’t have a real plan.

(Morty lifts the plank of wood off of Rick. Rick gets to his feet.)

Rick: Thanks, pal. I-I’m glad you ignored my advice.

President Morty: It’s just as well. I lied. That second seat’s a toilet.

Morty: Oh, super dick move. But weirdly kind of cool to admit it.

Rick: Geez, you guys really are bred for forgiveness. Let’s go.

(Rick and Morty run out of the chamber.)

[Ext. Citadel Street]

(Rick and Morty climb out of a manhole. Around them, deformed Mortys are crawling out from the sewers. A wave of portal fluid washes towards them.

They all get on a train and head for a different part of the Citadel: Mortyburg. Rick, Morty, and all the other Mortys on the train disembark.)

Rick: Say goodbye to the Citadel, fellas.

(Rick presses a button labeled ‘DISENGAGE’. The entrance to Mortyburg closes and an alarm sounds. The circular section of the Citadel separates from the main body, and thrusters engage.)

(For the Damaged Coda begins to play.)

(A hole opens up in space behind them, sucking the detached portion of the Citadel towards it. Rick struggles to activate the boosters.)

[Ext. Citadel, Space]

(The beam shuts off, leaving a rift in the Curve.)

[Int. Citadel Dimensional Drive Chamber]

(President Morty straps himself into the personal spaceship. The robotic arm holding the ship upright loads it into the exit chute. A pneumatic arm engages and shoots the spaceship out the bottom of the Citadel.

President Morty approaches the rift in the Central Finite Curve. Behind him, explosions erupt throughout the Dimensional Drive chamber.)

[Ext. Citadel, Space]

(Rick is still struggling to engage the boosters. Then he sees the sign: 'BOOSTER CONTROL MUST OPERATE WITH PARTNER'.

Rick offers his hand to Morty, pulling him towards the control panel against the G forces pulling them backwards towards the rift in space. They activate the boosters together.

Rick pulls his portal gun out of his pocket. There’s no more fluid left in it. They both turn and watch the Citadel explode.)

[Ext. Central Finite Curve Rift]

(President Morty watches in awe as he breaks through the barrier. Finally, his thrusters turn off and he is floating in the space between universes. He opens the front of the spaceship and presses a button on one of his wrist pads. A holographic representation of the Central Finite Curve is projected into the air in front of him, then bursts like miniature fireworks.

President Morty takes out a golden Portal Gun and creates a golden colored portal. He steps inside, and the portal closes behind him.)

[CREDITS]

[Int. Mr. Poopybutthole’s Apartment]

(Mr. Poopybutthole turns off the TV playing the show credits.)

Mr. Poopybutthole: Woo-wee. Evil Morty. That was quite a scheme. Makes me wonder if there’s an evil me out there. But I guess, sometimes I look at my life, and I may not even need ‘im. Cuz, well, guess I made a pretty big mess of things myself. Ooo eee.

(He gets out of his chair and walks to the stove.)

Mr. Poopybutthole: I never got my job at the university back. Remember that? Rick made me do karate. It was kinda funny, but I guess things went downhill from there.

(He picks up a ramen package off the counter and opens it.)

Mr. Poopybutthole: Started isolating myself from Amy. Used to tell her everything I was feeling.

(He dumps the noodles into the pot on the stove.)

Mr. Poopybutthole: But then I guess I stopped.

(He picks up a photo of Amy.)

Mr. Poopybutthole: Cuz I wanted her to love who she thought I was, not who I felt myself becoming.

(He puts the photo of Amy back down.)

Mr. Poopybutthole: Ever think about how horrified the people we love would be if they found out who we truly are? So we just dig ourselves deeper, into our lies every day (he walks back over to the stove), ultimately only hurting the people who were brave enough to love us.

(He pours the seasoning packet into the pot, then throws the empty packet on the ground.)

Mr. Poopybutthole: Wish I didn’t do that.

(He reaches into the sink and pulls out a fork. He turns off the stove and starts stirring the ramen.)

Mr. Poopybutthole: Wish I was brave enough to love them back. I don’t know, maybe you should try it.

(He carries the pot over to his chair and leans against the armrest.)

Mr. Poopybutthole: We don’t have as much time as we think. Ooo eee.
